# Breast_Cancer_Classification_Project
Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers among women worldwide, representing the majority of new cancer cases and cancer-related deaths according to global statistics, making it a significant public health problem in today’s society.  The early diagnosis of it can improve the prognosis and chance of survival significantly, as it can promote timely clinical treatment to patients. Further accurate classification of benign tumors can prevent patients undergoing unnecessary treatments. Thus, the correct diagnosis of Breast Cancer and classification of patients into malignant or benign groups is the subject of much research. Because of its unique advantages in critical features detection from complex Breast Cancer datasets, machine learning (ML) is widely recognized as the methodology of choice in Breast cancer pattern classification and forecast modelling. Classification and data mining methods are an effective way to classify data. Especially in medical field, where those methods are widely used in diagnosis and analysis to make decisions.  Because we are categorizing whether the tissue is cancerous or benign, we will train multiple Tree-based models for this procedure. We’ll experiment with hyper-parameters to see if we can enhance the accuracy. Try to solve the problem using the approach outlined below. For further information on each feature, consult the data dictionary. Decision trees (DTs) form the basis of ensemble algorithms in machine learning. These are powerful algorithms that can fit complex data.  In this project, our focus is on understanding the core concepts of the Decision Tree for healthcare analysis, followed by understanding the different ensemble techniques.
